Adds C4B-Ansible initial documentation (#853)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/c4b-environments/ansible/license-update.md

---
Order: 43
xref: c4b-ansible-license-update
Title: License Update
Description: How to update the license in use on your Chocolatey for Business Ansible Environment
---

## Summary

If you use the Chocolatey for Business Ansible Environment for long periods of time, the license you used to deploy it may expire and you will need to update it.

> You can either run through the process manually, or run the C4B Ansible playbook with the `licensepackage` tag, providing it the path to your new license:

Reviewer: Reading this sentence it feels like there should be headings for "Ansible" vs "Manual" as it's not currently clear that if you run the ansible example, then your don't need to follow the other instructions. Also the other headings being at the same level as "Summary" is confusing (imo). so putting them under a common heading in general would make the document easier to parse in general.

> You can either run through the process manually, or run the C4B Ansible playbook with the `licensepackage` tag, providing it the path to your new license:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can either run through the process manually, or run the Chocolatey for Business Ansible playbook with the `licensepackage` tag, providing it the path to your new license:
```

Example:

```sh
ansible-playbook ./c4b-environment.yml -i ./hosts.yml -tags licensepackage
```

### Prerequisites

- You will need Chocolatey CLI installed.
- You will need your new Chocolatey for Business license file.

> - You will need the FQDN of your Nexus host.
> - You will need the API Key for your Nexus repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You will need the FQDN of your Sonatype Nexus Repository computer.
- You will need the API Key for your Sonatype Nexus Repository.
```

Author: I'd like to quickly think out loud around our preferred nomenclature for the broadest term for "something you can install to", as I'm unsure computer makes sense here (in that it's too restrictive).

To me, a computer is a physical box. A machine can be virtual, but makes most sense if explicitly defined as such. A host or node can be any of the above without specifying (and can even refer to a SAAS URI, in my eyes)  - so I prefer those terms. I'll admit I haven't shown a strong preference, there, but did think "nodes" was how we referred to things-that-install-C4B-components-to, at least in terms of licensing.

Author: @pauby As you've requested `computer` in another area, I figured I'd ping you on this. Is computer the best term to use?

Reviewer 2: But we frequently use computer, machine, device, node and a whole host other names all for the same thing. Client / server may be the best choice here, and server maybe the best choice in general. Client / server is a known architecture type, everybody knows what you mean by it and it's something that simply 'serves' clients. 

I don't think machine is the best term to use. A car is technically a machine. 

We need to pick one terminology and stick with it throughout our docs. It might be an idea to define it here and get it updated for our design docs.

To save a lot of back and forth, do we agree 'client', 'server' and 'virtual machine' are the best terms to use?

## Creating a New License Package

> Please refer to [the C4B-Azure documentation](xref:c4b-azure-license-update#creating-a-new-license-package) for creating the license package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please refer to [the Chocolatey for Business Azure Environment documentation](xref:c4b-azure-license-update#creating-a-new-license-package) for creating the license package.
```

## Uploading the License Package

> We now need to upload this new package to the Nexus repository. Open a PowerShell window and run the following code (which will prompt you for information for values are not set):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We now need to upload this new package to the Sonatype Nexus Repository. Open a PowerShell window and run the following code (which will prompt you for values that are not set):
```

```PowerShell
if (-not $FQDN) {
    $FQDN = "$(Read-Host -Prompt 'Please enter the FQDN for the Nexus repository')"
    if (([uri]$FQDN).Host) {$FQDN = ([uri]$FQDN).Host}
}
if (-not $NexusApiKey) {
    $NexusApiKey = "$(Read-Host -Prompt 'Please enter the API Key to be used to push Chocolatey packages to Nexus')"
}

$LicensePackage = (Get-Item $env:Temp\ChocolateyLicensedPackage\*.nupkg)[-1]
choco push $LicensePackage.FullName --source="https://$($FQDN):8443/repository/ChocolateyInternal/" --api-key="$NexusApiKey" --force
```

> ## Pushing the New License to Nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pushing the New License to Your Client Computers
```

> You can either rely on automation to push this package (and updated license) to your nodes, or refer to [these documents](xref:ccm-deployments) to trigger a deployment manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can either rely on automation to push this package (and updated license) to your client computers, or refer to [these documents](xref:ccm-deployments) to manually create a deployment.
```

---
Order: 43
xref: c4b-ansible-license-update
Title: License Update

> Description: How to update the license in use on your Chocolatey for Business Ansible Environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: How to Update the License in Use on Your Chocolatey for Business Ansible Environment
```
